## Set-Game

I hope this codebase provides an interesting read and answer to the exercise.  The Set-game provided many possibilities to focus on when encoded in Scala.  Please allow me to elaborate a little bit on the form I choose as a rationale.

I have encoded the core game logic in the class `Game` using a couple of type alias definitions in the package object `setgame`.  A program that simulates a randomly generated Set-Game for three players is encoded in the class `Main` which includes a display of the required functionality.

I've treated the exercise as a proof of concept, and coded it without external dependencies, only using Scala the language and the `List`, `Map` and `Either` data structures that are provided by Scala the library.  This was intentional as I wanted to focus on displaying my familiarity with Scala basics, instead of an arbitrary external library or framework.  In the same manner I did not add tests, even though (I hope you agree) these could be added rather easily.  In short, I kept things small on purpose.

The overall design treats an instance of the case class `Game` as a step in the game, containing at value level the current `board` of cards on the table, the current `deck` of cards yet unseen by the players, a `score` mapping that maintains the number of card set moves any player has removed from the board up till now, and a `caller` reference that is used to hold the player that called upon a certain board.  Instances of a new `Game` can be created for multiple players via the `mkGame` and `mkEasyGame` methods on `Game`s companion object.

A game is played by a succession of `call`, `remove` and `enlarge` methods that advance the state in the game between `Dealt` and `Called` upon, and thus return a new `Game` as a right sided result when the game is still `Running`, and a left sided `Game` result typed `Finished` when it is not.  The `Game` class calculates itself when no move is possible any longer with the use of the `possibleMoves` method and the `isSet` method.  The latter one encodes what it means for a move of cards to comprise a "Game-Set" and is also used to decide the next state when a player tries to `remove` a set of cards from the board, the former one generates a list of all possible moves currently present on the board and filters out moves that are not sets.  Passing the next game state as a result of a player's action makes it easy for the client-side code interacting with a game to ensure correct behaviour under concurrent client calls, for example by maintaining a reference to the current game in an `AtomicReference` or `MRef` without the need to encode concurrency constraints within the class itself.  Again, this was done deliberately, as to be able to display my understanding of the game logic in a small codebase rather then the more generic issues of, e.g. concurrency.

To make sure that only allowed methods can be called in succession I used a `GameState` phantom type to annotate the state transition methods allowed so that correct sequenciality of client side usage of the `call`, `remove` and `enlarge` methods is checked at compile time.  The `GameState.Running` alternates between `Dealt`, in which state players are allowed to `call` upon a move spotted on the current board or `enlarge` that board if no move was to be found, conversely, in the state `Called` a move can be `remove`d from the board by the player that called upon it, which will be validated by the game's logic, and the appropriate new `Dealt` game with the board updated from the deck, and the score updated depending on the move being valid and a set, will be returned.  The phantom type makes sure illegal client side state transitions result in a compile time error.

The `caller` reference, used to maintain which player has `Called` upon a board and will thus be `removing` a move from the board, is `null`ed in state `Dealt` which was chosen over the use of the `Option` type because it (counter-intuitively) yielded more readable code in the implementation of `remove`, i.e. it could be implemented without a call to `Option.get`.  Note that this reference is used only when `Running` game state is `Called` and `Game` class internally in the method `remove`, and thus is arguably an implementation detail.

Two methods are (temporary) present to drive simulation of a full game: `hint` which just returns the `headOption` of the `possibleMoves` on the board as a means to suggest which move could be played, and the overwritten `toString` as to provide for better logging when a simulation is run. The state transition from a `Running` game that is `Dealt` or `Called` to a `Finished` game is decided by no moves being possible on the board anymore, and the deck of cards being empty.  Additional to this state transition at type-level, it is represented at value-level by returning the `Finished` game state left-sided, while games that are `Running` are returned right-sided.

In order to run a simulation, execute:

```
$ sbt run
```

I hope you enjoy.
